## RAMPVIS / VIS4RAMP - 210122 - Jason DYKES - ROGERS

<hr style="background-color:#fff ;height:0px; border:dashed 1px #e0e0e0"/>

interpretivist perspective  - "opportunities for researchers to contribute knowledge that extends beyond visualization idioms and software" and "diverse range of knowledge contributions"

Objective: "using design study to acquire a more diverse range of knowledge, including knowledge about the visualization design process as well as about people’s relationship with data and technology more broadly."

* writing devices for reporting interpretivist design study


RECOMMENDATIONS :

1. establish systematic reflective practices that include reflexive notes, reflective transcriptions, and artifact curation
2. build and maintain a trace of diverse research artifacts; and
3. argue for rigor from evidence, not just methods

Writing Devices:
1. inclusion of direct links to research artifacts to transparently provide an abundance of evidence
2. embedding of a design study paper within a methodological one to highlight the diversity of our research contributions.

#### ABUNDANT

Pluralism - multiple perspectives
Parallel designs - many options
prolonged engagement - design by immersion, concurrent evaluation

#### REFLEXIVE

Strive for “explicit and thoughtful self-awareness of a researcher’s own role in a study” [44]
Reflexivity it "an acknowledgement of a researcher’s influence on a study, and vice versa"

 * Reflection in action - memo - in the moment
 * Reflection on action - critical refleciton, questioning of assumptions

Memo "before and after meetings and during pivot- point moments in the research process"

#### TRANSPARENT

scrutinizable documentation of data, methods, analysis, and artifacts
annotated portfolios and design discourse


### Process

Think of it as a Data Collection & Analysis problem

---

Ambition is to write a paper that draws upon a range of experiences through sets of interactions with modellers during the RAMP effort through
 1. **abundant** data collection, including
   * discussion - zulip, email, etc
   * annotated meeting notes
   * presentations & position statements
   * sketches
   * papers & drafts
   * designs and design prototypes
   * reflective memos
   * etc.

 2. **reflexive practice** - supported by systematic reflection with regular documented ...
   * _reflection in-action_ - e.g. reflective memo-ing, including reflexive practice (relfection on self) and
   * _reflection on-action_ - e.g. revisiting experiences, perhaps through

 3. **transparent** presentation of annotated artefacts in a manner that
   * supports _reflection_
   * links evidence to _claims_
   * engcourages _scrutiny_

These should support the _generation_, _presentation_ and _checking_ of any claims made :

 1. take reflective notes before and after interviews with domain collaborators
 2. include reflexive considerations in your field notes
 3. audio-record interviews and analyze them via reflective transcription - soon after the interview
 4. revisit and reinterpret early notes and sketches

Build trrace with tagged metadata - record, reflect, and report

> We recommend that design study researchers plan for a trrrace early in a study and consider three important issues

 1. the process of collecting artifacts greatly benefits from establishing a system for organization early on
 2. develop mechanisms to automatically extract concept tags from the artifacts themselves
 3. develop a system for anonymising artifacts
 4. be open about recordings - establish what will be on- versus off-record

> reflection

 * design study researchers plan for the time and space to engage critically and reflectively with their research artifacts and experiences
 * look for things that changed, shifted, and surprised.
---

I finally got to read the InfoVis paper fully today.

It's beautiful.
Well done - what a fantastic contribution.

The only thing I would add is that I'd really encourage you to be clear about which of the studies you cite are your work. This seems to be in the spirit of transparency and reflexivity. So, for example on page 2 we hear that:
"Two recent visualization design studies include audit trails as supplemental materials [29, 40]". I think the reader needs to know that this was you! Why would that not be important? Hiding it seems a bit disingenuous to me, it suggests independence and some objectivity.

Hmmm ... just a suggestion and I don't want to end on a downer.

It's an incredible paper that I will read and read and use and use.

I can't tell you what a joyous experience it was to read through with trrrace - like a whole new different World.

Thank you!

J.

P.S. I can only see 5 patterns in Fig 1b?

Oh, and Miriah - did you ever get to chat to Janice Morse?
