Tom, Aidan, Cagatay.

I promised to come up with a protocol  approach for logging reflective notes made during and after interactions with participants in RAMPVIS.
Thanks for your thoughts on this and the various comms and ideas.
Apologies for not being quicker and more organised about this.

It was only on Friday that I realised that along with myself, we represent the 4 modelling teams.
So I wondered whether we could appoint ourselves 'points of contact' for this activity.

This could work well, and might motivate me to actually make the recommendations (it's all so complex with so many people, and hard to unpick the EuroVIS discussion from the ongoing one !!)
I hope you have seen the VDL paper (Rogers et al.) and my next job is to combine this with a couple of other ideas (e.g. the ADR paper and the Hall et all paper) to make recommendations. I hope to have that done this week. We need to log efficiently and effectively ... but doing so consistently (how?) and (as) comprehensively (as is pragmatic and practicable) is important and will need some discussion.

I wonder whether we could meet briefly today?
Just to check in?

No worries if not - but a face-to-face reaction might be helpful.
I'll send a request round if you don't mind!

J.
